foreign
good afternoon
thanks for coming
and listening to my story
um
Mark voltage been in region for the last
20 years 10 years here in Singapore and
prior to that living and working in Hong
Kong and Shanghai originally from the
Netherlands
now I feel almost Singaporean after such
a long time it's great to be here I love
what saster does
um
for those of you that are unfamiliar
with amplitude we're digital analytics
platform and we bring power to the
products of our customers some of the
brands that you probably notice or
recognize here in region are atlassian
canva entity docomo
so we're very proud to you know help
them with probably one of the most
important digital assets their products
product LED growth that is the story of
this afternoon
one of the reasons our customers love us
is that we bring power to their products
a show of hands here just really quick
who has heard of plg before
not bad not bad and out of the ones that
raise their hands who has cracked the
code and has the product as their main
driver for growth
no one
okay I was going to invite you up here
on the stage to help me out this
afternoon but I guess I'm guessing I'm
going to be doing this on my own
um
I mean it's it's it's everywhere when I
joined the amplitude four months ago plg
for me was a was a bit of a buzzword
even what does it stand for but I like
to compare it a little bit to the music
industry and songs songs are there most
important product the artists right and
a good song sells itself
you hear it in the taxi you hear it at a
barbecue you hear it at the gym and
ultimately you Shazam it you check it
out you go online you buy the album
maybe even go to the concert in uh in
Singapore if they're coming over here
and before you know it you're a BTS fan
you're part of the army
um but product like growth is is more
than just a good song a good product
there's a lot more to it and what does
it mean to you here in the audience as
technology companies
plg in our eyes is a product LED go to
market strategy where the product is the
main driver for growth so basically your
product is helping your customers people
try buy and ultimately grow with your
product
you want them to fall in love with your
product you want them to be so in love
with your product that they end up
saying well you know what I'm going to
spend some money on this and after they
spend some money on this hopefully they
grow and as they grow you do
why is plg at the moment such a Hot
Topic everybody's talking about it I see
a few hands here in the room I expected
a few more but I'll let you know why it
is a Hot Topic
digital products have grown massively
over the years we actually think that by
the end of 2023 we'll double the amount
of digital products out there in the
market
can you think of any company that
doesn't either use a digital products to
deliver the service or has a digital
product as their core of their business
million
yeah
um even the Hawker centers here in
Singapore right pay now baywave Baylor
and there's several ways in which you
can settle the bills so digital products
are everywhere
the second reason the digital products
are everywhere and everybody talks about
it is because the buying patterns has
significantly changed
in the 1980s to 2000 and this is where
roughly I started my career
um the CIO had all the buying power all
right long RFP processes security was
everything the look and feel of the
software wasn't really top of mind I
remember when I was uh when I was my
very first job there was a gentleman in
the office that actually used a green
screen to get his work done we've come a
long way since then but
sales LED growth was at that point in
time the number one growth driver
we then move 10 years 20 years forward
and we're now in 2000 in 2020 and the
executives are taking control of the
buying decisions so very departmental
Solutions had to be solved
the CFR was looking for budgeting and
planning the cro was looking for Revenue
forecasting the chro was looking for
um
a payroll solution
so marketing LED growth and the
messaging specific messaging for these
Target ordinances was the number one uh
growth driver
now we're in the digital stage digital
era the power has shifted to you us the
end users
McKinsey published a report not too long
ago where they stayed at 70 percent of
all buying decisions are currently done
remote
or through self-serve
the end user is finally getting the
power that they've wanted right they try
the product they swipe their credit card
and they are in control of what is going
to be the next step for an organization
when I in my career it was often
referred to by the CIO who found it
really frustrating this was happening as
Shadow I.T
now we're referring it to it as as
product-led growth
but when you put the user experience
front and center customers are far more
likely to end up growing with you
and the final reason is the economy
now we're feeling it everywhere a little
bit more churn than last year a little
bit less pipeline than last year and
friends and colleagues that that are
looking for a job and have been
unfortunately asked to go
last May I think it was a great Capital
who hosted some great drinks last night
and I saw a few few out there
they published a paper to their
portfolio group in which they advise
them to let go of the fat and build some
more muscle
let go of your sugars and move to
protein
and that was a bit of an analogy for
being fat being sales and marketing and
sorry the sugar being sales or marketing
and the protein being the product
their thinking is that the cost to
acquire a customer should not sit at the
front end of your organization but
should actually move towards the product
now as you can probably tell from my
presentation we had amplitude and myself
we absolutely love plg but plg is not
the the one size fits all right plg can
solve for a whole raft of use cases but
for the large Enterprise opportunities
it's going to be really tough to work
with plg
so pure PhD is not realistic in those
scenarios
um but I've got good news there is a
hybrid model that we actually use within
amplitude which is a combination of
sales lab growth and product like growth
which we refer to as product LED sales
and product Lab sales combines the power
of your product with the power of your
sales teams
this means that your sales team can
spend less time on cold calling and then
might end up you know closing very small
deals and your product team can focus on
the customer journey and actually spend
time on how you take your customer from
a try to buy to a growth phase
we had amplitude has seen a massive
a positive impact of applying this to
our part of the organization as a result
of product LED sales we have tripled our
lead to pipeline conversion rate
so that means that our sales team is
three times more effective in closing a
product-led opportunity versus your
traditional mqls or or hand raises
so
this is the tough bit
first you need a good product right
without a good product all of this comes
to a grinding hold
how do you create a new good product the
model on the screen here is is one way
to think about it and clearly I won't be
able to solve building a good product
here in one slide but when you're
thinking about building a good product
these are some of the steps that you
consider can consider number one you
need to spark curiosity around your
product you need to create a pool you
need to create that audience to come
towards you and that is a very
traditional way of marketing ads
promotions if you're in the b2c you
maybe use influences to get people to
come and check out what it is that you
have
the second thing you need to do and that
is probably the most important part on
this on this slide is to create that aha
moment
and the aha moment is the point where
the user goes ah now I understand what
everybody talks about this now I see
what the value is that everybody uh is
is after and talking about
so you have to think through what those
values are and then design a relatively
simple experience for your users to get
to that Value Point in the shortest time
possible
for example with canva it could be a
user finding out that it's super quick
and super easy to set up a very
beautiful personalized template
the third bubble is around the value
exchange now the customer your user has
gotten so far into your product that
they're ready to spend some money on it
the value is enough to spend some money
on it think of Spotify
I had it I went to a paying user in
Spotify when I was out there doing my
run I have my playlist selected on 120
beats a minute I'm in my routine and
halfway through I get a shoppie
commercial which is great shopee is a
fantastic brand but not when you're in
the zone and and trying to go as fast as
you can so that's when I thought you
know what that 10 or 20 dollars extra
I'm gonna I'm gonna buy Spotify and I'm
still there all right once you're in you
don't really go out
all right so the next step step four is
the actual trigger your product needs to
constantly engage and Delight your
customers they're not gonna stay around
forever so how do you create something
that they will keep coming back to you I
think slack has a very good example
where they keep building new native
Integrations right HR is integrated into
slack budgeting is integrated into slack
collaboration tools like Myro is
integrated into slack and as you as an
organization grow you will have a need
for more integration so you keep coming
back and using slack because it is a
step ahead on the needs that you might
have
finally
you need to prioritize virality virality
is the buzz that spreads and the circle
can start again I think Zoom most of us
would agree is probably the best
business to business example of uh of a
product like growth model is where I
myself was a Microsoft Microsoft teams
user
um pretty happy until I got a invite to
zoom call for conference I attended that
downloaded it play with it and I thought
ooh this is pretty good
um I then ended up going into the aha
moment exploring it further and I again
have become a paying Zoom user
all right
now you got a good product
um
no need to think about a freeway or a
way of offering it to your market for
free
how many here how many people here in
the room offer their product for free
okay cool that's a pretty big group
actually
the best companies do this so maybe
maybe it was you with your hand up the
best companies do this
snowflake offers a free trial zoom and
slack went viral
um canva gave Adobe a good run for their
money when their free product took off
and so by offering a free version of
your product you're basically creating a
steady pipeline of customers to come
towards your business
this is a huge part of our strategy at
amplitude
I can tell you that 50 of all my
customers my install base started off as
a free customer
and they're now paying customers
so if you don't have a free plan in
place now is the time to start
considering and here's three things that
I would suggest you think about as you
do
number one do you want to offer a free
trial or do you want to offer a freemium
my recommendation is is that you offer a
freemium a free trial is time-bound
I don't know if you've experienced but I
certainly have when you download
something you register you play with it
once the business then takes over
different priorities you come back to
that and you still have two or three
days on the clock and it doesn't really
allow you to experience the product so
don't don't tie it to a time don't tie
it to a clock let the users use it when
they are ready to use it
the second thing to consider is do you
want to offer something specific for
startups and smbs
clearly they have small budgets but they
could be the future canvas they could be
the future atlassians so we had
amplitude we actually offer a
scholarship plan these are for startups
that have less than 5 million worth of
funding VC funding and less than 20
employees they get a quite a rich
feature set that they can use it's for
free and as they take off and that is
what we're betting on we will be in this
slipstream
and the final thing to consider is the
actual sign up experience
my advice is to keep it self-serve
simple fast free frictionless you don't
want any sales people or bdrs involved
when people trying to sign up for your
uh for your piece of software
all right we got a product
we've got a way for people to try it for
free
now you need those customers to actually
move from a free user into a buying user
you need to identify clear product
signals when is your customer ready to
graduate to that paying customer
in order to do this you will need
visibility into their customer Journey
you need to understand that which action
they do within your software is going to
lead to what type of outcome
if you don't have that visibility then
basically it's going to be a black box
there are lots of different product
signals and we've got a few here on the
slide that you can consider and Frankly
Speaking it's going to be different for
for each one of your businesses but
here's two to to just think about
one could be volume based let's say you
only allow your customers a number of
free queries a month or free events a
month
and you want to monitor that when they
hit the 80 90 percent of that of that
usage so you can then reach out to them
and say hey you're you're using the
product too it's almost maximum capacity
is it time to consider buying some extra
capacity as you continue to use it
a different way of looking at a product
signal is the type of user if you all of
a sudden see licenses being handed out
to the marketing department
maybe there's a marketing use case that
you were not aware of so pick up the
phone speak to them and ask them the
question hey what is the marketing
problems that you're trying to solve and
we're actually having features for it
that sits on the paid side of uh of the
equation
again these things are a huge part
of my expansion strategy amplitudes
expansion strategy
so what this will result into is you're
going to have a batch of pqls product
qualified leads instead of your
traditional mqls
you need to then Build A playbook for
your sales team
your sales team needs to understand how
they interact or need to interact with
these pqls because it's a new way of
working and it's very different from how
they've used it how they have used to do
sales in the past
um so this is something of the
recommendations that I think you should
consider
number one I think your sales team will
need a deeper understanding of how the
product works at a technical level
understand how users behave through the
product and so they can read and
interpretate the product signals
correctly we had our sales kickoff
a month ago I think in uh in San Diego
everybody within amplitude from the
intern
up until the CEO and founder and Spencer
so he was Flawless had to do a test on
uh on uh on our product so product
accreditation both well theoretical as
practical and it gave me as a relatively
newcomer a lot of insight into the power
of of of our product and how users
interact with it
the second thing is now that you have
those pqls your sales team needs to
monitor this on a daily basis so my
sales team has access to a couple of
dashboards in which they can actually
see how the free users are interacting
with the software and that is from a
volume base that is from a use case base
there's a few other product signals that
we look at
and then thirdly and this is an
important one
you do not want your sales team to pick
up the phone and say to this free
customer I've been watching you this is
how you interact with me you don't want
to be creepy right so there's a bit of
training to be done also on what do you
do next right you see that one of these
customers is getting to a maximum
capacity how do you then speak to them
what is the right approach
I can tell you though that all of this
is is far more difficult than uh what I
pretend here on the stage
um my sales team was uh initially very
reluctant to adopt uh plg
um the reason for it is that they were
afraid that it would cannibalize their
business and they would as a result do
less commission and especially on the
lower end of the average deal size right
you get to the end of the quarter and
you have several more days on the clock
and it's easy to close maybe a 10K deal
and that you know 100K deal or whatever
it is is going to be that's not going to
fall in the next seven days
um but the exact opposite is actually
true it doesn't cannibalize the sales it
actually frees up the sales team to go
after those larger and more complicated
deals and Frankly Speaking if you think
of an OTE to ACV or ARR ratio you're
using your sales capacity your cost of
acquisition a lot smarter by letting
them change the largest stuff instead of
chasing the stuff that the product can
help fix
so to put it very simple
um product LED sales will accelerate
deals as opposed to cannibalizing them
when I was in Q4 my first Q4 at
amplitude we had a CEO that was checking
out a paid feature over and over again
um we saw it we picked up the phone we
reached out to him we had a few
Discovery calls we built a proposal we
started to negotiate and as it was Q4 I
was probably a little bit more lenient
than I would be now in in q1 but we
ended up signing a discussor and
converting it to a page user and we
would have never been able to do that if
we had not monitored these product
qualified leads
all right
so getting towards the end
um
when this is done correctly the product
is there to assist
the the sales right the sales can still
score the goal and the product is there
as a partner to the sales motion
together they will bring power to your
products
the key takeaways for this afternoon let
me just try to summarize and recap uh
plg is an amazing growth tool but it's
not all or nothing
the best teams combine the power of the
product and power of product LED growth
with the power of sales LED growth I
call that product LED sales
to pull off
the product LED sales you need to get
four things right
number one
you need to have a great product number
two you need to build a free plan and my
suggestion is you do a freemium
number three you need to identify those
product signals so you understand how
your customers are behaving within the
product so you know when they're ready
to convert
and number four you will need to train
your sales team on how to follow up on
those leads
now if you can do all of these four
things
your team is going to be better and more
efficient and your sales teams are going
to be stronger
all right
my QR code is here the QR code gives you
access I think to my LinkedIn profile
so you can go there and ask a few
questions I'm happy to take we have six
more minutes I'm happy to take one or
two questions if there are questions
um otherwise I'll be in the room in the
back with two of my colleagues that sit
over there and we're happy to yeah if
you wouldn't mind doing it on the so the
recording will come hi my name is Marika
I work for test gorilla and HR tech
company we're struggling a bit to decide
what we should put in the free plan and
what should be paid do you have any
advice on how to assess that properly
that's tough one yeah
you wouldn't ask me if it was if it was
an easy one
um
what we we what we have done with an
amplitude we have decided to
expand it on feature sets to uh an as
rich as possible feature set combined
with what is our cost so features that
actually drive a lot of cause there
where we said no we can't we can't do
that because there's no returns and
clearly volumes are pushing those costs
up quite high so economies of scale you
think about your entire price book and
you think about this business case or
model and you need to find a way to
justify which features they can use and
the cost will print that it will carry
but knowing that it will lead to as with
us a 3X more a 3X better conversion rate
than than in the past
But ultimately a free version needs to
give them enough experience to to come
away and saying wow this product is
amazing
if you can't achieve that then free
version is going to fall
on its backside
yes
that exactly was my question your last
point so a free version has a limited
capabilities
but an Enterprise which has a large
number of users how would they get the
feel in the free version that this
product is right for me because they are
in a different class they want more
features which are typically not there
in Free so they won't be able to test
all the features to become a qualified
lead for the sales team to become paid
versions how do you 100
100 and you're you're not going to offer
those features uh you can't be as
feature Rich and as you think about it
as an organization grows or if your
success within an organization growth
then at some point it's going to get to
the partner head or it's going to get to
the CIO or the CPO or pick any of the
c-level guys and then a larger
procurement process kicks in
um so you need to layer po product Lab
sales and product like growth or sorry
product like growth and sales like
growth to get it to product LED sales
you can't you can't just rely on that
free version to drive but it will give
you leads it will give you signals it
will give you stuff that you can act
upon
um and you need to think about
what is the most important value driver
inferences you sell into the office of
Finance right what can you offer within
your software that makes the fpna team
go that's it that makes my life so much
easier I Now understand and he will talk
to his colleague and he will talk to her
and everybody starts using it a little
bit in in the shadow of uh of the rest
of the organization but if you then
follow up and see that usage and don't
follow up with the sales team at the CFO
level
you've got a story to tell because you
know that half of his team is already
interacting with your software and
getting value from it and now you can
start talking about potentially your
bigger deal size if they were not
already paying in some shape or form
yeah you're welcome
yes um yeah just following up to that
Mark what if the end user is not the
beneficiary or the decision maker how
does product sales work in that and give
you some more context from a cyber
security company for Enterprise for
example
I'm my csos and cios and ctOS probably
never look to try a free product by
themselves and so how do you kind of
build this notion in knowing that this
is much more scalable than the classic
SLG
it's a tough
answer a tough question with a probably
not an easy answer for me
I think I think a better understanding
of your business would help but
when it comes to product LED sales
it is at some some products my previous
company
um planning and forecasting solutions
that needed a lot of back-end
integration into existing Excel
spreadsheets existing Finance Stacks
um
how are you going to get somebody to
explore your product for free without
the data ingested into the software
right impossible right so then you stay
at a very simple surface level where a
service where you do some basic
integration with
maybe half a day of a consultant to help
you do some integration so you can see
all the dashboarding I get some feel for
it but and that's what I tried to say
earlier it's not a one-size-fits-all you
need to look at your and the most
important thing I think if you think
about a customer life cycle the
retention part is where product let
growth plays an extremely important role
if you don't have that one right if you
don't have the one right where what I
call the trigger effect where they keep
coming back because you keep innovating
um it's going to be super tough to to to
get product-like growth to become
successful in your business
foreign
[Music]